MTEC - 2210 Game Design and Interactive Media
Voorhees V-312
Wed 6:00-9:15
----


Instructor
Charles George 
CHARLES.GEORGE55@citytech.cuny.edu


Overview
The Goal of this course is to cover Introductory game development through Unity.  We will cover game development, starting from basics of how games are structured up through more intermediate concepts.  We will be working in the Unity Engine.  

Course Software (All software has free versions)
Visual Studio
Unity
Github

Pre requisites
Intro to game development course
Rough knowledge of C# scripting and Unity

Important Dates


August 28th - September 18th
Unity 2D: Topics Include
Introduction to the engine, basic scripting, basic assets and input, first bits of math, basic UI
First project presentations - September 18th
September 28th- October 16th
Unity Scripting and fun times	
Unity more advanced Assets, 2D animations and animators, Going deeper on game math, using randomization effectively, Improved UI. 
OCTOBER 2nd-> Off
Second Project October 16th

October 16th  - 30th 
Third Unit
More Advanced Programming, Concurrency and timing, Juice, Cameras, Particle Systems
Third Project Presentation October 30th
October 30th -   Nov 20th
Flexible topics, I will assess what students feel like they need to learn to complete their final projects.  
Final Project Presentation Nov 20th 


Help Hours and group work

I encourage you to ask each other questions, and work together. I want you to understand the process, even if that means looking at someone else's code or getting help.  Similarly for web resources. .  Professional developers use information from all over the web.  At the end of the day the final product must be yours though, You may not fully source a full project and make small changes


I will be open for office hours 1 day a week, for 2 hours, Monday evenings from 4-6 pm.  I will also be available via city tech Email, and will run a slack chat room where we can ask questions. Please allow some time for a response, as I may not be able to respond in real time. The course is on Github for lectures, and such here.   The zoom link will be posted to slack

https://github.com/CharGeorgeCUNY/2210_Fall_2024


Class communication will happen mainly via Slack and email.  If I’m running late, and last minute announcements will happen via slack.  
invite link: 
https://join.slack.com/t/slack-k544284/shared_invite/zt-2pjj8d43m-XVsyhQGpG0ZgocCkQxJZ9A

All assignments will be submitted via Github.  Each student will have a repository created for them that they will use to submit assignments.


Grading
A  Excellent:  
Exceptional work for a college student.  Work at this level is thorough, well reasoned, creative, and displays growth understanding and effort


B  Good:  
Competent work for a College student even though some weaknesses are evident.  Demonstrates competency in the key course objectives but shows some indication that understanding of some important issues is less than complete. Shows some level of growth from previous work. 


C
Borderline:  
Weak work for a college student; meets minimal expectations for understanding and effort and shows no growth from previous projects. 


  D  Deficient.  
Inadequate work for a college student; does not meet the minimal expectations for a college student in the course.  Work is inadequately developed or flawed by numerous errors and misunderstanding of important issues.  Student does not demonstrate knowledge or technical competence.


F  Fail:  
Work fails to meet even minimal expectations for course credit for a graduate student.  Performance has been consistently weak, with serious limits in many areas.  Weaknesses or limits are pervasive.  


Final Grade Rubric:
30% Participation
70% Project work

Notes
Regular class attendance is important, participation is an important part of the grade.  There will be one unexcused absence per semester, after which points will be removed from the participation score.
Students are responsible for all material, in all forms, presented during scheduled class times. 
Students are required to keep copies of all development assignments throughout the semester. 
When working in a group, all group members must possess current versions of the assignment.
The contents of this syllabus may be modified depending on the progress of the course.
Late work will be graded a full letter grade if it’s late more than 24 hours. 

Academic Integrity
Students who intentionally submit work either not their own or without clear attribution to the original source, fabricate data or other information, engage in cheating, or misrepresentation of academic records may be penalized for academic dishonesty.  According to CUNY’s policy, academic dishonesty will be “subject to review and the possible imposition of penalties in accordance with the standards, practices, and procedures of CUNY and its colleges and schools. Violations may result in failure on a particular assignment, failure in a course, suspension or expulsion from the University, or other penalties.” 

https://www.cuny.edu/about/administration/offices/legal-affairs/policies-resources/academic-integrity-policy/#:~:text=Academic%20dishonesty%20is%20prohibited%20in,a%20college%20or%20university%20education

AI Policy
Don’t let AI write your software.  I will not be able to accept purely AI written purely in software.  I don’t recommend using software like ChatGPT to get help, but I’m not going to try and prevent you from using it.  

Accessibility
The College will make reasonable accommodations for persons with documented disabilities. Services are available only to students who are registered and submit appropriate documentation. As your instructor, I am happy to discuss specific needs with you as well.

Course Communications
Students are responsible for having a working email account (which they check regularly), and using the course blackboard account for any and all updates.   

Religious Observance
Students should notify instructors at the beginning of the semester about their wishes to observe holidays on days when class sessions are scheduled. Where academic scheduling conflicts prove unavoidable, no student will be penalized for absence due to religious reasons, and alternative means will be sought for satisfying the academic requirements involved. If a suitable arrangement cannot be worked out between the student and the instructor, students and instructors should consult the appropriate department or program director. 

